NAME: FNU SHIVA SANDESH
EMAIL: sandesh.shiva362@gmail.com
ID: 111111111
Project 1B - Summer 2017 - CS 111

Key files:
    1. lab1b-server.c : Consistr bascically the code that was written in the 
       first part of the lab. The only addition was addition of the socket 
       and changing the file dirrectors to appropriate pipe then input and 
       output to and from the shell. The major success was the correct output 
       of the commands redirected to the client.
 
    2. lab1b-client.c : This was the major code that was to be written from the
       scratch. This included the implementing the socket code and also the 
       encryption and decryption using mcrypt.  This was one of the most 
       challenging part of the assignment.
 
    3. Makefile: For building the executables, cleaning the files after 
       execution and creating the tar ball. 

    4. my.key: Contains the encryption key for encrypting the trasmission
       between the server and client.
 
Major Obstacle : Understanding the vrious API's especially the socket and also
      the encryption libraries.Various layers of abstraction
      make it little easier to digest. 

Limitations: Works well on local host but it would be difficult to work on 
	     other host. Also implementing long command would be difficult. 
	     Also receiving the packages from server might not be of equal 
	     length.
	     The only limitaitons is that the poll timeout will be an 
	     influential factor in determining the amount of the data that
	     was read from a file descriptor an trasfering the data over 
	     the socket. The timout will have non-trivial influnce on how
	     the log file look like.
Citations:
	1.. Linux manpages for all the API's such as socket(), bind(), connect(
           server, atexit(), poll() and other I/O services.
       2. http://www.cs.rpi.edu/~moorthy/Courses/os98/Pgms/socket.html
       3. http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sprintf-in-c/
       4. http://www.binarytides.com/socket-programming-c-linux-tutorial/
